[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So what we do now
is we have our root component, and
this is all set up for us.
We don't have to write this.
All you have to do is just
register your root component
using this AppRegistry register component.
Which is to say, hey,
this is literally just like doing
the render method inside of React
where you render the root component.
This is the React native version of that.
Because there is no DOM to render to,
you don't need to register your component.
And that happens for you automatically, so
you almost never need to even come here
and change this, unless you change the
name of your application halfway through.
So this is here for you.
I will talk about style later,
but that's basically it.
It's the same thing, and
all the stuff that we did as far as
the methods we set up,
most of that stuff is the same.
You will run into some issues and we start
getting into the events, onChange and
stuff like that, because these
aren't the same dummy events.
So you're gonna run into
some stuff up there.
But most of it is the same.
But now let's actually just go through
some of those elements to kinda get you
started with the to do app.
So what we'll do first is, let's just
get rid of all this stuff in here.
And then what we'll do is we'll just
go over some of the basic components.
We'll talk about that hot loading
thing that just popped up in a minute.
We'll go over some of these basic
components that we're gonna use.
So we've got View which is like a div.
And also in order to do app we had a what?
We had a button, we had a text input,
and we had like a list of things.
So let's just do that.
So we'll say constructor.
>> Scott Moss: Super and
we'll do the same thing.
We'll make some states.
So the exact same code here.
>> Scott Moss: And we have todos.
There you go.
And now I come down here I'm
just going to go ahead and
just show you that is the same.
I'm just going to iterate over the todos,
which are just numbers right now.
And I'm just going to say
this.state.map or this.state.todos.map.
>> Scott Moss: Todo, no, not that todo.
And all I'm gonna to do is
render a text that says todo.
So when I hit save,
this thing broke because,
no, it's not an object.
I'm doing hot reload, that's why.
So let's refresh this bundle, there we go.
So the reason that broke is because I
have hot reload on or hot module reload,
which if you never have used React or
heard of that before,
instead of reloading the entire app or the
entire browser or whatever, it's literally
just going to patch the code that we
changed and send it directly to the app.
That way we can keep the state,
and it doesn't have to reload.
But because I actually did change
the state itself it broke, so
I had to actually reload
the entire app for it to work.
But there we go.
So then we have
our todos it on the page here.
>> Scott Moss: Pretty simple yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Got a question from
the stream.
Could you talk about
what super is a little?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah the reason we need to
call super here is because we're
extending from another class here and
super is just calling this
class's constructor method.
If you try to use the this keyword before
calling super, this is gonna break.
Because then this is like, well why did
you even extend the component then?
You need to set up the component
you're extending first before you set
up this component.
It's just inheritance.
You would do this yourself manually if
you were not using the class syntax
here in like ES5.
Cool, so a few things to note here.
One, this is exactly the same.
Two, we've got some
weird yellow thing here.
We're going to talk about this stuff in
a minute, but it's pretty much the same
error we got in the browser when I forgot
to put the key property on the stuff.
I'm sorry,
on the elements I was mapping over.
It's just that React Native just puts
it in this nice yellow box that you
can look at.
Cuz right now we don't have any logs and
haven't talked about logs so
this is a way that it just shoves it in
your face like, look, check this out.
Obviously you're not gonna want
this here on production, and
there's a way to turn it off.
But this is here for you for development.
And you can just say dismiss all.
So that's for rendering, and then for
input, let's just input a text input here.
So we can say TextInput, and
for the text input we can go
just go ahead and
just put a TextInput, there we go.
And we don't put any properties on it or
anything, we just say text input.
And you'll see that right here,
we get a text input.
It's really small because the styles,
>> Scott Moss: Can I zoom in a little bit?
Yeah, it's really small because we
haven't messed with the styles.
We can make it wider obviously.
But that's a text input.
And depending on what platform you're on,
iOS or Android,
that text input is gonna look different.
It's going to use the native version
of that, depending on the platform.
So this is like a material-looking
input for Android.
For iOS, it will look like an iOS input.
It will be completely different.
But you can also overwrite those styles,
which we'll get into later.
So there's a text input.
We can we can set value.
We can listen for changes.
For instance, for the text input,
you can say onChangeText.
And you can pass in a function here and
you'll get the text that changed.
You can also just say onChange as well
which just gives you the entire element.
So we'll just say onChange was
the exact same thing we did last time,
and we can just say
this.handleChange.bind(this).
And now we can do the handleChange,
so handleChange, and we can say e.
We'll setup some new state here, newTodo.
There's a string, and
then we can just say const ( value
) is going to be e.target.value,
oops, e.target.
So we get the value there, and
then we can also put a value on here.
And we'll set this to this.state.newTodo,
exactly the same that we did in the web.
It's the same thing.
OnChange, handleClick, newTodo here,
and we'll just say this.setState for
the newTodo is the value.
So that's gonna update that.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Two questions.
Andre Klaus's question is,
yes, but you need to
actually create a separate entity just for
the key in your object array.
Isn't there an easier way to do it?
>> Scott Moss: Butt you need to
actually create.
>> Speaker 2: I'm not sure I
understand the question.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I'm not sure I
understand the question either.
>> Speaker 2: The second one is
maybe easier.
You got it, okay.
>> Scott Moss: Actually create
a separate entity just for
the key in your objects.
Plus array or a zero.
Okay, I guess, yeah,
I think I know what he's saying.
He's saying for
that warning we were getting for
when you iterate over an element
in React and place it on.
React needs a way to keep
track of of the elements.
So a key is like a unique identifier for
the elements.
That way you can render
things efficiently.
So yeah, I think what he was saying is
like do we need to add on like a new
property somewhere for
each object for the ID.
Well in this case because it's an array I
mean with all the arrays have indexes, so
we can just use index here.
So we can just say i, and
then key can just be i.
So that's one way you can do it.
So anything unique about the stuff, in
case the index is unique for all of them,
so we can just do i.
That'll be the key.
But if this was like coming
from the server or something,
these are Todos from the server, they'll
probably have ID properties on them.
And that's what you would use instead.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so we have that.
The only other element that
we didn't do was a button.
So like-
>> Speaker 3: I got a question.
Text input is not showing up for
me on the simulator.
>> Scott Moss: Text input is not showing
up for you.
>> Speaker 3: I'm importing it.
>> Scott Moss: Importing text input,
and are you self-closing it like this?
You are?
Okay I will come,
are you getting an error anywhere?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Scott Moss: No, it's just not
showing up?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Are you
using Android?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Scott Moss: iOS?
>> Speaker 3: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: I have the same thing.
>> Scott Moss: Same thing,
it's not showing up?
All right let's run on iOS and see.
>> Scott Moss: React-native.
>> Scott Moss: Run-ios.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so they try
to keep all the components the same
across both platforms, but
there's probably some differences.
Maybe iOS you probably had to set
a default value or something like that for
it to show up.
I'm not sure, but let's check it out.
Or maybe it is there and it's just like
invisible, because there's no styling.
They're all different.
Theyre like all-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
they're saying you need
to give it a height.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, see there you go.
You got to give it a height.
>> Speaker 2: For
iOS.
>> Scott Moss: All right.
That's a big iPhone 6.
This iPhone 6 looks like a tablet
>> Speaker 2: You
can change the size above.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
it's just like it rendered
it like that like here is.
Look, no, it's just like-
>> Speaker 2: Do Cmd+3,
it'll make it small.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
I'm like, what,
is that what they look like now?
[LAUGH] The retina!
This is taking forever to build
cuz I almost never built with iOS.
But yeah, it was the height thing.
Sometimes you just got
to set some defaults.
They try to keep it the same.
What else was I talking about?
Touchable input or touchable highlight.
So touchable highlight is
one of the touchables,
I guess that's the word,
for lack of better words,
that you can do for buttons,
so TouchableHighlight.
So it's almost like a button.
In fact,
you can just use it as a button for now.
It does some other things,
like it allows you to like
subscribe to when the button was
pressed in, or when it's coming out.
You can change opacity underneath it,
all types of nice things,
but we're going to use it like a button.
And we'll just say TouchableHighlight.
And then what we'll do is
we'll put a Text here.
It says tap me, and
then instead of onClick
because there's no clicks on
a mobile device it's onPress.
So you do onPress, and
at this point it's the same thing.
So this .handlePress.bind
>> Scott Moss: This.
>> Scott Moss: So
we can save that.
>> Scott Moss: And
I get an error because I
forgot to make that method.
I just got ahead of myself, so
handlePress(), there you go.
That's a nice error screen by the way,
it just pops up red and
just throws up in your face.
All right, here you go.
So now you can see I can hit tap me, and
we have like this button here.
>> Scott Moss: Cool,
so I'll get into more of the details.
Now the next exercise is to
convert what we had on the web.
Use the scaffold app that
you just scaffold out or
you're still scaffolding out and
head over to the index.Android or the
index.iOS, whichever one you want to do.
Or you can set up your new todo app inside
of source and import it into both so
it works on both platforms if you want to.
Either way convert your todo
app over to React Native and
see if you can get it to work the same
way you had it working on a web.
Let's not worry about styles right now.
If you want to get fancy and
make it look good, you can do that, but
we'll get into styles afterwards.
So let's see if we can just
get it working at least.
If you need to look at the docs
the see exactly what the properties or
the props that you need to use or
the events, totally do that.
I'll be walking around too.
So there might be some small differences,
like for
instance onPress compared to onClick,
so that way you would have known that.
But most of it's the same.
Actually, everything I just showed you
right now is pretty much all you need
to do this.